---
date: 2025-01-24 10:02:35
layout: post
title: Ashiana?
subtitle: Ashiana means "a magnificent home"
description: Yet another conversation with my dad, that made me wanna bang my
  head on the wall
image: /assets/img/uploads/dall·e-2025-01-25-15.37.46-a-surreal-depiction-of-a-chaotic-and-messy-home-labeled-ashiana-symbolizing-a-mix-of-disorganization-and-misplaced-priorities.-the-house-is-surroun.webp
category: life
tags:
  - lifeinindia
  - middle-class
  - rant
  - backward-mindset
  - mental-peace
  - overwork
  - toxicity
  - selfish
  - truth
  - work-culture
  - ""
author: grizzlybear
paginate: false
---
A couple of weeks ago, I matched with a girl on a matrimonial site. Our fathers, being the enthusiastic middlemen, decided to talk to each other first. After what must’ve been a “satisfactory” conversation between the two of them, her dad shared her contact details and suggested I reach out to her. 

*Before progressing further, for those not familiar with the Indian Arranged Marriage scenario... This is considered **normal**... I know its stupid, but guess where I am now* 

So, last night, my dad wanted an update: *“Did you talk to her?”* 

I told him I had, but the conversation didn’t really take off because she had a tiring day and couldn't talk much. That’s when the generational divide reared its head. My dad went off about how people today are “too busy” for serious, life-changing matters like these.

At first, I tried to calmly explain him the situation. I told him that, given the toxic work culture in India, people rarely have any time left for themselves. I even explained that this isn’t just me ranting; this is the reality in most MNCs across India. But, predictably, my dad wouldn't buy it.

He started pulling out examples of companies that don't have such culture. But in reality these companies pay less than the median corporate income here in India (which, let’s be honest, is already miles behind what’s considered reasonable in any developed or even developing economy). And when I pointed this out, his response hit me like a brick wall: *“Obviously, you’re paid less because you’re working less.”*

That’s when I decided to share a bit of my past experience. Back when I worked at an MNC in the US, I’d see my Indian counterparts showing up on video calls at **11 PM India time**—a regular occurrence. And it wasn't just the meeting attendees. I could see many other employees in the background working. I even brought up examples of my friends, many of whom routinely slog late into the night. And top it all my dad has seen my brother, who’s had the same experience while working from home. So, I told my dad that this is all due to the lack of strict labor laws in the country. And let’s be real, why would the government care? As long as they’re raking in their taxes, they have no incentive to fix things.

The irony is painful: the very people slogging away in corporate jobs don’t have the time or energy to fight for better labor rights. They can’t afford to dent their perfect records, the ones these companies hold over their heads like trophies during recruitment, performance reviews, promotions, etc.

But my dad? For him, everything in India is “fine.” The work culture? Fine. Comments glorifying overwork, from people like:
* Infosys founder, [Narayana Murthy](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/education/news/narayana-murthy-bats-for-14-hour-workdays-giving-work-life-balance-the-cold-shoulder-again-a-look-at-the-worlds-5-most-overworked-nations/articleshow/115329473.cms)
* Ola CEO, [Bhavish Aggarwal] (https://news.abplive.com/business/ola-ceo-bhavish-aggarwal-work-life-balance-comment-stirs-debate-on-work-culture-1721986)
* L&T’s chairman, [SN Subramanium](https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-sn-subrahmanyan-l-t-chairman-under-fire-for-90-hour-work-week-remark-101736441286670.html)

There's a long list of such people and a never ending debate over the internet. 

But to my dad, it’s as if:
- no one’s ever [died from overwork in India](https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/ey-india-work-stress-death-anna-sebastian-perayil-daughter-26-died-of-overwork-at-ey-no-one-attended-funeral-womans-letter-6595688#:~:text=%22She%20was%20full%20of%20life,years%20old%2C%22%20she%20wrote.) 
- we’re not the nation of some of the [most mentally stressed people in the world] (https://www.william-russell.com/blog/most-least-stressed-cities-in-the-world/) 
- India's [ranking on the global happiness index](https://worldhappiness.report/ed/2024/happiness-of-the-younger-the-older-and-those-in-between/#ranking-of-happiness-2021-2023) isn’t scraping the bottom of the barrel.

I wish I could live in that same state of denial. It must be comforting, I imagine, to think everything’s fine when the world around you is a horrible mess in reality. At least then, I wouldn’t feel this constant mental exhaustion, this nagging frustration with the way things are in this country.

The conversation ended with my dad delivering his closing argument: *“We’ve built an **Ashiana** here, and it would be stupid to leave it for a better place.”*

And there it was—a painfully ironic conclusion to the chat. The same man who forced me to come back to India and stay here now shrugs at my frustrations, as if to say, *“Not my problem.”*

So, congratulations, Dad, on your beautiful ~~kabadkhana~~ —oops, I mean, Ashiana!